
Most automated scanners will:
- Detect if a target is up and running  
- Conduct a full or partial port scan, depending on config  
- ID the OS using common fingerprinting techniques  
- Attempt to ID running services w/ common techniques such as [banner grabbing](Banner%20Grabbing.md), service behavior ID, or file discovery  
- Execute a signature-matching process to discover vulns  
  
Some vuln scanners can be configured to exploit a vuln upon detection.  
Reduces likelihood of a FP, but increases the risk of crashing the service.  
- Many scanners can & will attempt to brute-force weak passwords which can lead to account lock-outs and bring significant downtime for the client.  
  
Strong signature matches don't guarantee the presence of a vuln. Vuln scanners can generate FPs and FNs.  

##### [backporting](Backporting.md)
Can cause FPs and FNs which may result in the scanner flagging software as a vulnerable version when it's actually been repaired.  
  
Always update the signature database before every engagement and manually review scan results.  
  
As older equipment may be adversely affected by heavy scans, consider throttling scan speeds and timeout values to start. Start increasing the speed incrementally until a good balanece is achieved.  
  
Placement within the network in relation to target hosts can affect speed threshold, access rights, likelihood of traffic interference, and target visibility:
- Speed of connection to the target network dictates raw bandwidth available, number of hops to the individual hosts, etc  
- Firewalls or IPS could block access to hosts or ports and may drop traffic while generating security alerts.  
	- These devices can limit capabilities and subsequently mask vulnerabilities on targets behind them.  
- Typical vuln scanners attempt to discover targets with a ping sweep or ARP scan, but internet-connected targets wouldn't be able to receive ARP traffic from external subnets and may block ICMP requests  

##### Rate Limiting
Used to limit the amount of traffic on a network

When scans exceeds thresholds like throughput, packet count, or connection count, the source system of our vulnerability scan can be drastically restricted in the context of networking capabilities.

When the host discovery and service detection probes are rate limited and therefore slowed down, the vulnerability scanner may miss live hosts or services. Most vulnerability scanners can address this by specifying delays, timeouts, and limiting parallel connections.

  
#### Authenticated scans
	Scanner logs into the target with a set of valid creds.  

Most cases, authenticated scans use a privileged user account to have the best visibility.  
On Linux - Enable SSH service on the target and configure the scanner w/ valid user creds.  
On Windows - Requires the WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation) along w/ creds for a domain or local account w/ remote management permissions.  
	Even w/ WMI configured, firewall settings and UAC may block authentication.

Once access is properly configured, most scanners analyze the system config, registry settings, review files in Program Files\ & all supporting executables & DLLs in the Windows\, and app & system patch levels.  
They generate a lot of info and produce more accurate results at the expense of a longer scan time.  
Most commonly used during patch management process.  
  
Two of the biggest vuln scanners are _**[Nessus](Tools.md#Nessus)**_ (went closed-source in 2005) and **OpenVAS** (fork of the original open-source Nessus project)  
  
Things to consider when running a scan:  
• Are our targets located on an internal network or are they publicly accessible?  
• Should the scanner attempt to brute force user credentials?  
• Should the scanner scan all TCP and UDP ports or only common ports?  
• Which checks should the scanner run and which ones should it avoid?  
• Should the scanner run an Authenticated Scan or an Unauthenticated Scan?  
  
_**[NSE's](Tools.md#NSE%20scripts)**_ can also be used - under the “vuln” and “exploit” categories.  
  
Run all scripts in the “vuln” category:  
```bash
sudo nmap --script vuln <ip>
```