
[nmap](Tools.md#nmap)  can use NSE scripts for Vuln Detection, Brute Forcing, and Network Discovery.

Be careful which scripts you run/ when, etc.
- Scripts categorized as "safe" have no potential impact to stability
- Scripts in the "intrusive" category might crash a target service or system.

#### To search for vulnerability scripts:
```bash
grep "\"vuln\"" /usr/share/nmap/scripts/script.db
```

#### Can also run all vulns:
```bash
sudo nmap -sV -p 443 --script="vuln" <ip>
```

#### Vulners Vulnerability Database

Some of the standard NSE scripts are quite outdated. Fortunately, the _vulners_ script was integrated, which provides current vulnerability information about detected service versions from the _Vulners Vulnerability Database_. The script itself has the categories _safe_, _vuln_, and _external_.

Most of the output comes from the vulners script, which uses the information from the detected service and version to provide related vulnerability data.

The vulners script not only shows us information about the CVEs found but also the CVSS scores and links for additional information.

Another useful feature of the vulners script is that it also lists _Proof of Concepts_ for the found vulnerabilities, which are marked with "*EXPLOIT*". However, without a successful service detection, the vulners script will not provide any results.


### Adding a script

Able to add NSE scripts to nmap for use.
	BE CAREFUL!   Anything downloaded from the web can contain malicious content!  Review carefully.

1. Search for the specific CVE you're looking for and append "NSE" to the search.
2. Save as **.nse** to comply with the naming syntax of the other NSE scripts.
```bash
cp ~/Downloads/<cve-script> /usr/share/nmap/scripts<cve-name>.nse
```
3. Update script.db:
```bash
sudo nmap --script-updatedb
	[sudo] password for kali: 
	Starting Nmap 7.92 ( https://nmap.org )
	NSE: Updating rule database.
	NSE: Script Database updated successfully.
	Nmap done: 0 IP addresses (0 hosts up) scanned in 0.54 seconds
```

Can then use:
```bash
sudo nmap -sV -p 443 --script "http-vuln-<cve-name>" 192.168.50.124
```