

**Tools for web enum:**
- [DIRB](DIRB.md) - Web content scanner.  
- [BurpSuite](BurpSuite.md) - Collection of tools geared towards web application security testing.  
- [Nikto](Nikto.md) - Open Source web server scanner.  
- [Sublist3r](Tools.md#Sublist3r)


Enumeration of new functionality is important each step of the way. Even previously failed attacks may succeed in a new context.  
  
Important to find the tech stack in use:  
• Programming language and frameworks  
• Web server software  
• Database software  
• Server OS  
  
  
###### Inspecting URLs
Files extensions can reveal programming language.  
  
Ex:  
Java-based: .jsp, .do, or .html  
  
Files extensions on web pages are becoming less common since many languages and frameworks now support the concept of _routes_  
- Allows devs to map a URI to a section of code.  
- Apps leveraging _routes_ use logic to determine what content is returned to the user and make URI extensions largely irrelevant  
  
  
###### Inspecting Page Content 
Ctrl Shift K - open Web Dev menu.  
  
_Debugger tool_ (Sources in Chrome) may display JS frameworks, hidden input fields, comments, client-side controls w/in HTML, etc.  
  
Ex:  
megacorpone.com uses jQuery v1.11.0  
  
"prettify" minified code by clicking on Pretty Print Source button - {}  
  
_Inspector tool_ (Elements in Chrome) can drill down to specific page content & finding hidden form fields in the HTML source  
  
  
###### Inspecting Response Headers 
We can use proxies to intercept requests and responses btw a client and webserver, but w/in the browser is the _Network tool_  
  
_Network tool_ can be used to view traffic after a page is launched (may require a refresh)  
Clicking on a ‘server’ header often reveals the name of the software used and its version number (in default configs)  
  
Headers that start with “X-” are non-standard headers and often reveal additional info about the tech stack used.  
Ex:  
- X-Powered-By  
- x-amz-cf-id --- Amazon CloudFront  
- X-Aspnet-Version  
  
  
  
###### Inspecting Sitemaps
Sitemap files help search engine spiders  
- robots.txt  
- sitemap.xml  
  
They can offer key information about allowed/ disallowed web pages that might not otherwise show up upon a visual scan of the site  
  
  
###### Locating Admin Consoles  
Web servers often ship w/ remote admin apps which are accessible via a specific URL listening on a specific TCP port.  
  
Two common Ex:  
- Tomcat - /manager/html  
- PHP - /phpmyadmin